=== imac2.breyer.com === vim: ft=sec tw=78 nohls
File:   ~/breyer/log/2023/06/20230626txt
From:   ~/Desktop/Docs/CompTIA/COMP_699/M3/M3Assignment.txt
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

                            %Module 3 Assignment %

Solve these JavaScript conditional logic problems.

-
Larger or Smaller?-

Usage: Use simple conditional statements

Create an application that accepts two integers within two separate prompts.
Then, display only the larger of the two within the browser window.
Note:   Don't forget to handle the fact that the two could be equal.

-
The Word Translator-

Usage: Use simple conditional statements

Create an application that prompts the user for a language code ("es", "de",
"en", and "fr"). If they enter one of the four codes, display the translated
version of "Hello World" for the given language within the console window. If
the user enters anything but those four language codes, the application should
default to English. The result should be (for example):

    Hello World translated in French is: Bonjour le monde

-
The "Coin Flip" Game-

Usage: Use nested conditional statements

In this part of the assignment you will explore what you've learned so far
about variables, prompts, conditionals, operators, math, and more to create a
"coin flip game". To complete the game follow the steps outlined below:

 1. Begin your application by creating a variable called "coinFlip" and set it
    equal to a random number. You will have to use a Math method to get this
    number:

        let randomNum = Math.round(Math.random());

 2. Prompt the user to select "Heads or Tails" and set the result to a new
    variable called "choice".

 3. Use a conditional to check the result of the coin flip. If it's less than a
    certain number, it will be heads. If it's greater than a certain number, it
    will be tails.

 4. If the result is heads and the user selects heads, display the following
    message within an alert:

        The flip was heads and you chose heads...you win!

 5. If the result is heads and the user selects tails, display the following
    message within an alert:

        The flip was heads but you chose tails...you lose!

 6. If the result is tails and the user selects heads, display the following
    message within an alert:

        The flip was tails but you chose heads...you lose!

 7. If the result is tails and the user selects tails, display the following
    message within an alert:

        The flip was tails and you chose tails...you win!

-
The "Grade Assigner" Application-

Usage: Use else if statements

 1. Collect a number between 1 and 100 from the user.

 2. Make sure that number is between 1 and 100, if it is not, let the user know
    that only numbers between 1 and 100 are accepted.

 3. If the score is between 60 and 69, write out "You received a D" into the
    console.

    If the score is between 70 and 79, write out "You received a C" into the
    console.

    If the score is between 80 and 89, write out "You received a B" into the
    console.

    If the score is between 90 and 100, write out "You received an A" into the
    console.

    If the score is less than 60, write out "You received an F" into the
    console.

-
The "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" Game-

Usage:  Use a combination of simple conditional, nested "if/else if", and
        "switch" statements

In this classic "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" game, you will build an
application that begins the user on a journey where the path they take can
determine the outcome of the player. To complete the game follow the steps
outlined below:

 1. Prompt the user and ask them if they are ready to play the game. If they
    say "yes", continue. If they say "no" or anything other than "no", thank
    them and ask them to play again sometime.

 2. Alert the user within the following:

    You are in a dark, dingy, and humid cave searching for the lost treasure of
    Captain Chingadera. You are disoriented, lost, hungry and extremely
    thirsty.  You see a speck of light in the distance ahead of you, something
    shimmering to your right, and the sound of running water to your left. Your
    back is against the wall.


 3. Then prompt the user with the following:

    Which direction would you like to head (please enter forward, left, or
    right).

 4. Using a switch statement, evaluate the direction that the user selected.

    left: alert, "Your thirst has gotten the better of you. You trip on a rock,
    hit your head, and fall into a pool of water and drown!"

    forward: alert, "You walk 100 yards and safely make your way out of the
    cave."

    right: alert, "You found the gold! You walk into a small room and see
    thousands of gold coins, jewels, chalices, and more. You jump into the pile
    of gold in celebration and immediately a hidden door slams down and traps
    you in the room forever!"


 5. If the user selects anything other than forward, left, or right alert the
    user

    "The ghost of Captain Chingadera has condemned you to eternal damnation and
    you shall now burn in the hot excoriation for lifeless lowlifes for not
    choosing the correct option."


 6. The game is now over. Ask the user to "rate the game between 1 and 10".
    If the user enters a number not between 1 and 10, thank the user for
    playing and end the game, If the user enters a number between 6 and 10,
    thank the user and ask them to play again. If the user enters a number
    between 1 and 5, thank the user and tell them that you are working hard to
    improve the game.

——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

