THE PHILOSOPHY OF INTERVIEWING

What is an interview?

  An interview is a two way process. The company is trying to decide if
  they would like to hire you and you are trying to decide if this is a
  place where you would like to work.

What is your goal?

  To get an offer. If you get an offer, you make the decision. If you
  don?t, you have had the decision made for you.

How do you achieve this goal?

  Concentrate on convincing them that you have the experience they are
  looking for and are interested in the position. Make your decision
  after you have had time to reflect on the interview, not during the
  interview.

THE STRUCTURE OF INTERVIEWS

Beginning

  Ask open-ended questions about the Company, the Group, and the Position

  Examples:

    Can you tell me a little bit about the company strategically . . .
    like where have you been (as an organization) and where are you
    going?

    Can you tell me about the group? Where do you fit into the
    organization as a whole? Where have you been (as a group) and where
    are you going? What is the technical environment?

    What are the duties and responsibilities of this position? What
    specifically are you looking for?

  The most important questions you can ask as early as possible are....
  What are you really looking for? What will it take for someone can be
  successful on your team?

Middle

  Tell them about your background
    * Highlight skills that are most relevant
    * Draw comparisons to show similarities with what you have done to
      what they are looking for.
    * If you don?t have a skill
    * Express interest in learning the skill.
    * Show confidence that you can come up to speed quickly.
    * Share an example of another relevant skill or experience.

End

  Summarize what they said that was important to them from the ?Most
  Important Question? and how you match up to their needs. Tell them
  that you are interested and tell them that you can do the job! Ask
  them how they feel you fit for the job and what the next step might be. 

HOW TO HANDLE QUESTIONS ABOUT SALARY

  On an application, if asked ?Salary Desired?, put ?Negotiable or
  Open?. If asked about salary, just say, ?I?m like anyone, I?d like to
  make as much as I can, but salary is not the only consideration. If
  you are interested in what I bring to the team I will consider any
  competitive offer.? 

SUMMARY

Do       Don?t
* Show up on time or slightly early   ? Chew gum
* Firm handshake and maintain good eye contact ?   Ask about salary or benefits
* Use good posture     ?   Be too cocky or too modest
* Concentrate your efforts on impressing them  ?   Talk too much or too little with what you can do for them

Remember, first impressions are usually lasting impressions, so give it your best effort.


INTERVIEW PLAN OF ATTACK

Jobs are WON and LOST in the interview!  You can turn each negative into a positive and make them
work for you.

1. Be enthusiastic.
    Assume this is a good opportunity.

2. Take an active role in the interview.
"Where would you like me to begin?" (Background question)
"What does someone need to bring to the table for this position?"
"Proven tells me that XXX and XXX are important to you and your company--what other things are important?"

3. Reasons for leaving current or past jobs.
DO NOT RESPOND NEGATIVELY.
"Originally I went into the company to improve my skills in XXX.   I have been fortunate to have become proficient in
this area.  Now I would like to experience XXX and I am excited because I believe your company can meet those
needs."

4. Concentrate on the big picture.
"What do you see as the career path of someone who is a strong performer?"
Communicate questions that you are career-oriented and have a desire to do a good job.

5. Strength/Weakness Questions
Tailor your strengths to what they are looking for.
Give strengths and follow up with benefits--what your strength means to them.
Pick a weakness that is not going to have an impact on this position.
"I'd like to improve on XXX."

6. Maturity
Appropriate clothes and appearance.
Solid hand shake.
Eye contact--body language.
Attitude and enthusiasm.

7. Compensation
"Money is important but I'm more interested in the terrific opportunity that this will provide."
I understand that the salary range for this position is XXX to XXX.  I'm sure that if I am chosen that the offer will be
competitive, but what I'm really interested in are the objectives we discussed earlier.
If the employer really presses:  "I'm currently making XXX.  Taking into account my skills and character, I see myself
in the XXX to XXX range." Or "I'm currently making XXX, I would like to see something progressive.?

8. Positive Close
Ask if there are any concerns about your ability to fulfill the role.
Be sincere--let them know you are interested.
Ask when they expect to make a decision and what the next step might be
Ask if there are any other questions

Congratulations!  You passed the interview with flying colors.  Call me immediately to let me know how it went.


CRITICAL QUESTIONS TO ASK AT AN INTERVIEW

* Please define the scope of the position and the technical skills preferred.

* Please identify qualities of the successful people in the group.

* Tell me about the group?s chemistry and working relationship.

* What is the opportunity for growth/career progression?

* How would you describe a typical day in this position?

* How much travel is normally expected?

* Why is the position currently open?
-is the position newly created or did the previous employee leave? Why?

* Outside my group, who else will I work with?

* How often are performance reviews given?

* Does the company sponsor professional training programs?

* How many people in the group go through training programs each year?

* What do you feel will be my greatest challenge the first 6 months?

* Who is your competition?

* How are you positioned (strategically)in your market-space?

* What are the barriers (if any) to your success in their market-space?

* What new product lines/services are planned or have been announced recently?

* How long have you been with XXX?

* What is your background?  Where have you worked for previously?

* What do you like best about XXX?  What keeps you here?

* What do you like least about XXX?

* What has been your biggest challenge while at XXX?

* What one thing would you change about your position or XXX?

* How many people are you interviewing for this position?

* Is there anything missing from my background that you feel may prevent me from doing the job?

* When should I follow-up with you?


 QUESTIONS TO BE PREPARED FOR IN AN INTERVIEW

Prior to the interview, ensure you can address each question.

1. Do you think you'd like to work for us? Why?
Reveals if you've been sharp enough to learn anything about the company.

2. How do you spend your spare time?
Shows if your interests are wide and if you are a balanced person.

3. What type of position are you most interested in?
May indicate if your main interest is making money. Ensure you align your response to the
position you are interviewing for.

4. If you were starting your career now, what would you do differently?
Sometimes brings out the disturbing discovery that you are unhappy in your present occupation.

5. Are you eager to please?
    Effective method of revealing a yes person.

6. What do people criticize you for?
This and the following question are good for revealing personality traits.

7. What would you say are your best qualities?
May show how much humility you possess.

8. What was your best boss like?  Your worst boss?
Reveals your ability to get along well in a work environment.

9. Why do you think you'd be good at this job?
Gives you a chance to tell more about your skills and personal characteristics. May reveal the
braggart.

10. What is the most difficult thing you've ever tackled? The most satisfying?
Can show how high you will reach for achievement.

11. Do you wish to be a leader?  If so, why and in what way?
If you have any aggressive tendencies, these questions will reveal them.

12. What suggestions did you make in any previous job to cut costs/improve morale/increase
output/whatever is appropriate?
Helps identify the idea person.



QUESTIONS TO BE PREPARED FOR IN AN INTERVIEW
(CONTINUED)

13. What subjects did you like in college?
Sometimes indicates basic personality traits.

14. What college activities did you participate in?
May reveal your social meter and your potential energy level.

15. Why did you leave your last job?
Reveals unpleasant situations.

16. What sort of progress in our company would seem normal to you?
Reveals your leadership potential and grasp of reality.

17. What would you have liked to do more of in your last job?
Can reveal something about your job preferences and attitudes.

18. What makes the difference between success and failure?
May show an idea person, a person with imagination and creativity.

19. How does this job compare with others you're considering?
Could show how much shopping around you've done.

20. How did previous employers treat you?
May show your approach to people.

21. What would be your ideal job/career?
Is this job appropriate?

22. What do you think are the characteristics of a good supervisor (engineer, salesman, etc.)?
Indicates your preferences of how to be managed/led. May reveal leadership abilities.

23. Since none of us are perfect, what are your areas for improvement ?
May reveal more about your openness to self-improvement than the actual areas for
improvement.

24. What was a typical day like at your last job?
    Clues on energy level and attitude.

25. Ideally, how much money do you need to be content?
Reveals degree of money motivation.


WAYS TO SUCCEED ON AN INTERVIEW


Jobs are WON and LOST in the interview!  You can turn each negative into a positive and make them
work for you.

REVIEW THIS PRIOR TO EACH INTERVIEW.


1.   Dress for success - reflect a professional image.
2.   Be early for interviews (10-15 minutes).
3.   Turn off your cell phone or leave it in your car.
4.   Take a folder with you for notes and have your questions prepared that you want to ask.
5.   Extend a firm, friendly handshake.
6.   Maintain good eye contact.
7.   Express interest and enthusiasm (empathy).
8.   De-emphasize money and fringe benefits (open on salary).
9.   Compliment past employers or minimize if unpleasant.
10.   Express appreciation for interviewer?s time.
11.   Give direct responses to questions.
12.   Ask questions about position and the company.
13.   Be receptive to the possibility of transfer to other locations.
14.   Exhibit confidence and poise (at ease, calm).
15.   Be assertive without being overly aggressive.
16.   Exhibit tact.
17.   Express yourself clearly (voice, diction, grammar).
18.   Express a career purpose and goal.
19.   Express willingness to ?earn your stripes.?
20.   Demonstrate mature attitude.
21.   Exercise courteous, well-mannered behavior.
22.   Make short, direct responses to questions on unfavorable factors in record.
23.   Indicate participation in company activities (team play).
24.   Demonstrate decisiveness.
25.   Fill out company application neatly and completely.
26.   Show interest in finding a good career opportunity.
27.   Express interest in long-term opportunities (goals).
28.   Show understanding, compassion.
29.   Reflect high moral standards.
30.   Show interest in the company or industry you are interviewing with.
31.   Be energetic - well rested.
32.   Avoid prejudicial comments.
33.   Show broad interests (work and play).
34.   Take criticism as a professional statement.
35.   Get an offer - then make a decision about the company.


WAYS TO BLOW AN INTERVIEW


Jobs are WON and LOST in the interview!  You can turn each negative into a positive and make them
work for you.

REVIEW THIS PRIOR TO EACH INTERVIEW.

  1 Late for interview.
  2 Poor personal appearance.
  3 Limp, fishy handshake.
  4 Lack of interest and enthusiasm.  (Passive and indifferent).
  5 Over emphasis on money.  (Interested only in best dollar offer).
  6 Condemnation of past employers.
  7 Failure to look at interviewer when conversing.
  8 Failure to express appreciation for interviewer?s time.
  9 Failure to answer the question ?Yes? or ?No? before responding with detail.
 10 Asking no questions about position.
 11 Vague responses to questions.
 12 Over aggressive, conceited ?know it all? complex.
 13 Inability to express self clearly.  (Poor voice, diction, grammar).
 14 Lack of planning for career.  (No purpose or goals).
 15 Unwilling to start at the bottom; expect too much ... too soon.
 16 Make excuses; evasive; hedge on unfavorable factors in record.
 17 Lack of tact.
 18 Lack of courtesy, ill mannered.
 19 Lack of maturity.
 20 Lack of vitality.
 21 Indecision.
 22 Sloppy application or blanks.
 23 Giving impression of merely shopping around.
 24 Want job only for short time.
 25 No interest in company or industry.
 26 Cynical.
 27 Low moral standards.
 28 Intolerant.  (Strong prejudices).
 29 Narrow interests.
 30 Inability to take criticism.


INTERVIEW PREPARATION PACKAGE


PROVEN, Inc.
9444 Waples Street, Suite 440
San Diego, CA 92121
858-412-1165 ? Office; 858-412-1100 ? Fax
mgarcia@proveninc.com

